So how did this go, these functions?
What we've got here we've
got two to do [LAUGH].
We can start with the disable and
enable functions.
Now, this is tricky because I asked
you to set a button element attribute.
And I haven't really told you
what the spell is to change
the attribute on an HTML element yet.
So let's go back to our console and
I'm gonna go into the console in
my in-progress quiz game here.
Did anybody figure out how to
set an attribute to a certain
value on a JavaScript, sorry,
on an element in the DOM with JavaScript?
>> I tried documengetsElementsByName.
>> Okay, so first we're gonna need
an element to do something to, right?
So we could try,
let I'm just gonna grab a button here.
I'm gonna say document.
So you said getElementsByName?
>> Yeah, true, yep.
ByName and quotes true.
>> Okay, so true.
So this is gonna now,
this gives me a list of one button.
So I could say,
let's say b is gonna be button 0.
Maybe named that array, [INAUDIBLE].
So now b is an element.
Now the thing is,
in our function that we're gonna write,
we're not gonna actually need to
pick out an element from the DOM,
because we want our disabled function
to take in the button itself.
So we're gonna pass in as
an argument to our function
an element that we're then
gonna set an attribute in.
All right, but for now just so
that we have something to work with I've
got my b element here in the console.
So the question is, how can I set
an attribute on this element?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, sorry.
>> Chat there [INAUDIBLE]
>> So
there is actually a method on these
elements called SetAttribute.
And the way it works and
maybe this is also in the chat
is something we can find out.
If we were to, let's say I didn't
know that setAttribute existed,
because I didn't, right?
Just a minute ago, we hadn't seen it yet.
If I type setAttribute into MDN.
Look at that, I have a few options here.
Let's check out this first one,
setAttribute.
Sets the value of an attribute
on the specified element, great.
If the attribute already exists,
the value is updated otherwise
a new attribute is added.
And we see that its syntax is we
give it the name of the attribute
that we wanna se to set, and
then the value that we wanna set it to.
So let's say that I I'm.
Let's look at my b element.
So, we see it has whoa, okay.
That's too much, too much info.
Let's look at b, we see it has a name
attribute to the value of true and
a value that also is set
to the value of true.
So if I wanted to,
let's say rename this button,
I could use the SetAttribute function.
This is not what I asked you to
write in your disable function.
But just as an example,
I could say set the attribute
name to anjana [LAUGH].
So now if I look at b, I see that
I have changed the attribute name,
I've changed its value from the original.
Okay, but what I really wanna
do is disable this button.
Now, in HTML I'm gonna
inspect this element.
There is an attribute that we can use to
disable a button that is called disabled.
And if I set that button, do you see?
It's a little bit hard to see here,
but this button is now grayed out and
I can't click on it the way I can
click on the false button now.
So you've probably seen this
before on websites, right?
Where the submit button is disabled until
you've filled out all of the required
fields in the form or
something like that, yeah?
Now, we'll notice that
when I enter disabled,
it put the value of disabled
as being equal to something.
And the thing is that could be whatever,
so I could say,
disabled equals true and
the button is disabled.
But confusingly and this is a question
that came up so I want to address it.
If I let's say say disabled false you
might expect alright well if disabled
is false then surely the button is
enabled but let's see what happens it's
still disabled because the thing is the
browser is looking at does the disabled
attribute exist on this button it does
not care about what its value is.
So what we do is if we
want to enable the button,
we have to remove the attribute entirely.
And once we've done that I
get my click ability back.
So this is just some tricky stuff I just
threw at you to keep you on your toes but
we can set this disabled attribute
now with our new friend setAttribute.
So if I were to do this on my b
button we're not doing a function yet
we're just manipulating this
one button this one time.
I could call setAttribute disabled.
And we said we don't care about
the value of the attribute but
what happens if I try to do setAttribute
disabled with no other thing is an error.
Now, this is because unlike this
regular JavaScript this is a special
method which has some extra guide rules in
place to make sure I'm using it correctly.
Like we said before JavaScript
doesn't care if I pass in all
the arguments that I need.
But whoever implemented this
function made sure to throw
an error to let me know
that I'm doing it wrong.
So that's where we wanna
pass in some kind of value.
And that value doesn't really
matter it could be any string.
But just to indicate that it doesn't
matter, we could use an empty string.
And now once I run this b.setAttribute,
disabled comma empty string.
There goes the button it's disabled
now I can't click it anymore,
like I can this one, okay?
So this is essentially this
.setAttribute disabled, empty string.
This is gonna do some heavy lifting here.
So now we just need to functionify it.
So can anyone walk me through
their solution to implement
a function called disable
that takes in a button?
Let's think through it together.
Should we take a stab at it?
>> Sure, so
I did mine as a fat arrow function,
>> okay.
>> Const enable.
>> Okay, let's start with disabled.
>> Disable, sorry.
Const disable right equals.
And then I just generic button.
>> In parentheses button so that's what
we're going to name, our parameter.
And it's gonna be like a button
element similar to the b
that we had pulled out of the console,
okay?
>> Then the fat arrow.
>> Arrow.
>> And then curly braces.
Then it was just button.disabled
equals empty string.
>> Okay,
let's make sure that that also works.
I'm going to, let's try this on,
Okay, so b disabled here.
If we do disabled equals empty string,
now b disabled is False.
Which is confusing,
because now the button is enabled.
So maybe we should try using
the setAttribute approach cuz
I'm a little bit unsure what
exactly is happening here
because I don't know everything
about web development.
Mark, do you want to chime in?
>> It should work but
we should use setAttribute.
>> Let's stick with setAttribute because
we know more predictably what that's
gonna do.
So let's try button.setAttribute,
And the attribute we
wanna set is disabled.
And then we wanna set it to just anything
at all but we'll use the empty string.
So this is essentially
the same thing that we called
before b.seAttribute disabled
whatever we're essentially
just parameterizing the b part here
as button and making it a function.
Cool?
Great, okay.
Now, we wanna function enable, which is
going to remove the attribute entirely.
And so, if we were to figure out.
All right, how do we remove an attribute?
Well, before we typed in, sorry.
So yeah, if we were to type in like,
hey MDN, how do I remove an attribute?
Well, turns out similar to setAttribute,
there is a method on elements called
remove attribute, which we just
pass in the attribute name, and
then that removes the attribute entirely.
So here if I do, let's say b, okay,
just wanna make sure that okay,
so this button is disabled.
Okay, so b remove attribute
disabled is now going to take
away that attribute entirely.
So we don't even see it anymore and
the button is reenabled.
Yeah, great.
Okay, excellent detective work.
So now, do you wanna walk me
through functioning this?
>> Cons, enabled, equals, parentheses,
buttoned that arrow, button.remove
attribute parentheses, disabled.
>> Okay, great.
So now we have a small difference between
the structure of the previous function and
this one which is the curly braces, right?
And in this case,
functionally we're not gonna have like
In terms of how these are operating.
We are not gonna have much
of a difference because
neither of these function
returns anything.
Both of these functions are carrying
out some other operation.
So that's okay in this case, but if you
had a function where you did care about
the return value,
just be mindful of those curly braces.
Cuz that would mean you'd have to add
a return statement as we saw before,
okay great.
So now, let me reload,
my local file and see if it updated.
If it did,
then I should have a disable function.
Okay, great we didn't have that before.
Now, we also had the option buttons
variable which we had declared earlier.
So let's test it out.
How can I get the first button out
of my option buttons, quick review?
>> Options button 0.
>> Option buttons square brackets 0,
right?
Great, that picks out a button.
Now, what if I pass that in to my
disable function, let's test it out and
see if it works.
The button grayed out.
It's hard to see maybe on the screen but
if you're trying this along with me,
you should see that.
Yes, indeed this did disable the button.
Now, shall we try our enable,
and hopefully we still have this?
So enable, I want you do it again.
And option buttons 0, it's back.
It's clickable again.
Cool [APPLAUSE] great work y'all.